In the last section we spoke about how we make our own custom image.
We create a Docker file, we feed it into the Docker server, and that's going to eventually build a
useful image that we can use to start up our own custom containers.
And inside that Docker file, we're going to specify a base image, run some commands, and then eventually
specify a command to run when a container is created out of the image.
So in this section we're going to start working on our own custom Docker file.
Let me first tell you about what we're going to be trying to build.
So we are going to make a Docker file that is going to create an image that's going to run Redis server
whenever it starts up.
Now, throughout this course, we've already been making use of that Redis image to start up right on
our local computer.
But I want to show you how to build that thing from scratch or somewhat from scratch, just to be precise.
So this is going to be going to be the purpose of our Docker file and the image that we're going to
create out of it.
So let's get started right now.
I'm going to first begin by flipping over to my terminal and I'm going to create a new working directory
or kind of a project directory of sorts.
And I'm going to call it Redis image like.
So now you can put this folder anywhere you want on your machine.
Doesn't matter.
Anywhere is good.
I'll then change into that directory and then I'm going to start up my code editor inside that folder.
Now a quick note.
I am making use of Visual Studio code and I have configured it so that I could run it from the command
line.
So that is why I am able to run a code right here.
If you have not gone through those same steps, you will not be able to run that command and start up
your editor.
Essentially, all you need to do right now is start up whatever code editor you like to use and open
up that Redis image directory that we just created.
Then inside of here, I'm going to make a new file called Docker File and notice how it has a capital
D and it has no extension.
So there's no JSON here, there's no shell, there's nothing like that.
It is simply called Docker file.
So then inside of here, we're going to write out a couple of comments to guide us through the process
of creating our custom image.
And it's going to essentially follow this template of steps right here.
So the first comment I'm going to put down and notice how we create a comment by putting down the pound
symbol, I'm going to say that I'm going to use an existing Docker image as a base.
I'm then going to download and install a dependency and then finally I'm going to tell the image what
to do when it starts as a container.
All right.
Now, I'll be honest with you, the way we're going to approach this Docker file, we're just going
to write out all the code inside of here, all the configuration.
We're going to use it to build our image.
And then we're going to come back and talk about all the configuration that we've written inside of
here.
To be honest, it's a lot easier to understand the configuration that we're going to write after you've
actually seen the process of creating an image.
So a little bit of just blind copy pasting here.
So just follow along and we'll very quickly come back and talk about the exact lines of code that we're
adding in.
So the first thing I'm going to write down is from.
Alpine.
Then in the next section I'm going to add run APK add dash dash.
Update Redis.
And then finally on the very bottom line here, I'm going to add CMD, a set of square brackets, a
set of double quotes, and then inside there I'll put redis dash server like so.
Now.
I'm going to save this file.
I'm going to flip back over to my terminal.
I'm going to make sure that I'm inside of that red dash image directory.
And I'm going to run the line.
Run the command.
Excuse me, Docker, build dot.
Don't forget the little dot on there.
Notice how there's a little period.
So I'm going to run that and then we're going to very quickly see a whole bunch of outputs start to
stream along here.
And then eventually I see a message that says Successfully built and then blah, blah, blah.
Now we're going to copy this ID right here and then run, Docker run, and then I'll paste that ID in
and execute this.
And then we're going to very quickly see all the kind of output here that we saw previously when we
ran that Docker, seeing the reddest image.
And the last message I should see is ready to accept connections.
So we just went through the process of creating the Docker file, using it to build an image, and then
we started that image up.
But we haven't really said anything about what really happened there.
I'm going to stop the running container by pressing control.
See, we're going to take a quick break, come back the next section and talk about exactly what we
just did inside this file and at the terminal.
So a quick break and I'll see you in just a minute.